You've got a very basic server side rendering set up put together.
But there are certainly some rough edges around it.
Let me point out one big issue with our current setup if I flip on over to my code editor and open up
the home dot G-S file I can change the content of this component.
Like let's say I say I'm the best home component if I now save this file go back to the browser and
refresh the page.
Nothing happened here.
So right now we have a very static build process every single time we run that web pack script it read
bundles our entire application but it doesn't watch our project directory for any changes to any files.
In addition whenever we change that web pack script or whenever we rebuild our bundle there's nothing
to make our node server automatically restart and use the new code.
So in reality what we probably want to do is to make sure that any time any one of our project files
gets changed we then immediately rerun our web pack's script and then immediately restart our server
to use the new bundle that was created.
So these are two changes that we're going to have to make to both are packaged not just on file and
maybe another location or two to make sure that whenever we added a project file the server automatically
restarts with a new and updated code.
Let's first start off by taking care of making sure that web pack will automatically rerun any time
we change a project file back inside of my code editor.
I'm going to find my package not just on file in of here I'm going to find my scripts where we currently
have that one script to build our server to the very end of this command.
I'm going to add on dash dash watch this option right here.
We'll make sure that well-packed doesn't just run one time and exit.
Instead what pack will run.
It'll build an initial bundle and then it will continue to run and watch to see if any of our project
files are changed.
Then whenever they are updated it will automatically rerun and rebuild our bundle.
Now that's just one of the two things we have to make sure that happens whenever we change a project
file after well-packed is completed running.
We then need to make sure that we automatically restart our server as well to restart the server.
We're going to use a tool called Node 1 node mon is a little command line tool that allows us to automatically
restart node whenever some watched file changes.
Essentially it's not unlike that watch option that we just turned on with web pack.
If you want to read more about Nodong you can always check out the NPM registry and take a look at the
gnomon module inside of here you can see some of the different documentation on how to use it.
But of course we're going to set it up from scratch right now.
So to set up a node month script we're going to go back to a package.
Jay sun file and I'm going to add in another script we'll call this one maybe dev Colan server with
this command will run node.
Now with gnomon we want to make sure that we do some very particular options or there some very particular
things we want to make sure occur.
For example we do not want to restart gnomon any time a file changes in say the sarcy directory.
We really only want to restart our server whenever web PAC puts a new bundle inside of that build directory.
That's the only time we want to restart the server.
Otherwise we'll just be restarting the server farm more frequently than it needs to be.
So to make sure that gnomon only watches that build directory we're going to add on an option of dash
dash watch build.
So this right here is going to make sure that Nordman only considers the files inside of this build
directory.
When deciding when it needs to restart.
The other thing that we need to make sure happens whenever we run gnomon is to make sure that we execute
the correct command to start up our node server.
So any time that gnomon detects a change inside of the build directory we're going to make sure that
it starts our server back up by running a very specific command.
So we're going to say dash dash exec short for execute we will put an escaped double quote and the whole
list out the command that we want to be executed whenever something inside that build directory changes.
So we'll say node build bundle dot G-S and we'll place another escaped double quote so now whenever
something inside the build directory runs no one is going to decide to rerun this command right here.
Now last thing I'll make sure to do is to add a comma at the end of this line.
Don't forget that one.
OK so let's save this and we're going to start up both of these scripts at the same time and see how
we're doing.
I'm going to go back to my terminal.
I'm going to start my running server by pressing control C and then I'm going to open up a second terminal
window.
So right now we're essentially saying that our workflow consists of running both of these commands at
the same time we need one command to run one pack and one command to actually run the server.
Eventually we'll commit.
Well we will combine all this down to one single command.
But for right now we'll leave it as two separate ones.
So on one terminal window we'll run NPM run dev server.
So that's going to start up our node 1 process that actually runs the server and then in the second
window we'll run NPM run dev Colan build Colan server and that will of course set up the web pack script.
And notice on now well-packed Pax said there was going to watch the files that it was or it would watch
files and rebuild whenever they were changed.
So now if we go back to our home dodgiest file Here's my component right here and I'll make another
change.
This same thing I'll say on the very very best home component.
Now when I save this file I can go back over to my terminal.
Westpac has already updated very quickly.
You'll see that it did the initial build output right here.
And here's the second billed output from the change that we just made.
And then also on the left hand side you'll notice that our node one server automatically restarted when
well-packed was finished running as well.
So now we can flip back over to our browser refresh local host Colom 3000.
And we get the updated text on the screen.
Perfect.
OK.
So this definitely really kind of smoothes out our development workflow.
Now we don't have to rerun web pack or restart the server manually all the time.
All we have to do is make sure we are running those two scripts and then we can edit files as we please.
Now this is definitely a pretty good amount smoother.
But there's still a lot that we need to do.
So let's continue in the next video.